Convention: entries marked [IMPLEMENTED vNNN] are wired into the game.
Unmarked entries are new — add them below in the same "trigger line + comment line(s)" format.

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On first Field Advance:
Ah, this Black King has a Warrior with him, also blackened by this curse. Perhaps they also drank the cup of their master's greed.

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On first White Checkers Man move:
Man of Checkers, your kind defies fathomage, but we welcome your service!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On first White Checkers King move:
King of Checkers, you are of most alien lineage, but a King knows a King! Your alliance is appreciated!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On first Black Checkers Man entering field:
Even the strange Men of Checkers are among their number!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On first Black Checkers King entering field:
Even the states of Checkers were corrupted! O Checkers King, your path shames your kind!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On first item shadow on board:
Observe that shadow! Who knows what befalls us!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On first item fall:
Indeed, these Black Kings bring a magic into the air. Odd spells fall from the sky.

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On White Pawn taking a Black Warrior:
Good on you, little one! Your vigor is noble!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On White Rook taking a Black Warrior:
The smasher smashes! Good kill, Rook!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On White Bishop taking a Black Warrior:
O seer, have you not indeed seen our enemy fall!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On White Knight taking a Black Warrior:
Yes, rider! And so we ride to victory!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On White King taking a Black Warrior:
A White King does not sit idle on his throne when his people are so ravaged!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On a White Queen taking a Black Warrior:
Is a kingdom not blessed to have such a warrior as Queen!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On White Checkers Man taking a Black Warrior:
Even your martial moves are strange, foreign one, but I am no less grateful for them!

[IMPLEMENTED v656] On White Checkers King taking a Black Warrior:
Foreign King, I do not understand your form, but your strength is seen!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On first Grey Warrior entering field:
Behold, the Grey Warrior, whose curse falters at conviction! If I speak to them, perhaps they may be saved. Otherwise, they shall fall with the others!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting a Pawn:
Another little one joins our cause! Every blade matters!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting a Rook:
Another Rook to join our force, and a force they are indeed!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting a Bishop:
Come, Bishop! March with us on the path of light!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting a Knight:
Turn your mount, Knight! Ride with us!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting a Queen:
It is a very hard thing that you should turn, Queen, but your blades are most welcome!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting a King:
Ah, there is still honor amongst Kings here! Restore your honor!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting Checkers Man:
O Man of Checkers, were your fathers not immigrants from afar? Likewise, seek a new banner, our banner of honor!

[IMPLEMENTED v657] On recruiting Checkers King:
Our kingdoms may be different, but ally yourself with us, King of Checkers!

On killing a Grey Warrior:
Lo, I wish we could have taken a different path together, Grey, but this was not to be.

On Chest coming into play:
The Black Kings carry with them treasures of fallen magics. This shall only serve as plunder for my men!

On the Merchant coming into play:
Who is that strange man? He does not appear a part of the dark party. Perhaps one of my men could speak to him.

On a Void coming into play:
The dark magics wafting off these Kings is even eating at the very world itself. Lo, let us beware these Voids in the dirt.

On a Block coming into play:
Behold, that Block of stone -- no Warrior's blade could pierce that. Unless they partook of a magic of the Earth itself...

On a White Warrior falling into a Void:
What a tragic end, [piece]! Oh, to fall not by the blade of an enemy, but by... falling!

On a Bomb killing a White Warrior:
Stricken by the power of the Bomb! Let us do better to respect it in the future!

On a River coming into play:
Beware the currents of that River, men! Adjust your course or they will adjust it for you!

On first auto-field advance:
My patience has its limits! We cannot linger here forever, or the Black Kings will never pay their dues!

On any random turn (each line separate):
The Team Advance is a tactic handed down by my fathers. By it, the whole army may progress together, one step at a time.
The Field Advance is a necessary notion of war to continue onward. If anybody gets left behind, it is the price that must be paid.
If I hadn't gone on that cursed diplomatic mission, we might have prevented the Black Kings from committing their bloodshed!
I can't believe the rumors seem to be true: that the kings of the far lands allied against a friendly neighbor to take his resources unjustly. And thus this curse fell upon them!
These Black Kings -- all they have left is to ravage and destroy! It consumes them!
The further we tear through these murderers, the stronger they seem to get! Truly this cursed magic is strong...

On having only two White pieces left:
It's just you and me, [piece]! We ride until the darkness takes us!

On having only one White piece left (King):
All my men... gone. So be it. My honor demands fighting till the end!

On Merchant shop open first time:
Oh, what a clever man, selling these fallen magics! Surely these Black kings have no mind for business. But I will surely take advantage...

On second opening onward, random by line:
This seller appears to update his wares every once in a while. If I like something I see here, I better grab it quick.
Ooh, a(n) [random present item]! That could be very handy!

